# 2021-07-06
Day 1: Installing Arch on a laptop

---

## Prep

---

Some prep necessary to get to this point:

- Downloaded the Arch image from the [Arch homepage](https://archlinux.org/)
- Compared the SHA1 of the downloaded file with the SHA1 found on the [Arch Download page](https://archlinux.org/download/) using Excel (I'm sure there's a better way to do it)
- Tried to make **absolutely** sure that the download I picked up was the right one by verifying the GnuPG signature
    - Searched for GnuPG for Windows 10: [gnupg.org](https://gnupg.org/index.html), grabbed the Windows download [gpg4win](https://gpg4win.org/download.html)
    - Compared the SHA256 checksum against the downloaded file to again make sure that I got only the software I was expecting to get (verifying the verifyer...)
- Installed gpg4win, used Kleopatra to verify the key pair
    - Had some issues here, was able to verify the Arch .iso file, but couldn't verify the author against the .iso.sig file because I couldn't quite figure that part out.
    - Exercising the search muscles came up with some info - the error I'm getting is being generated because Kleopatra can't verify the signature of the certificate file (it needs the author's key pair to verify). I couldn't find a way to add it, and I figured that at this point for a first time install of Arch, I'm okay with just moving forward. 
    - On subsequent installs (because I'll have to format and reinstall multiple times), I'll be sure to verify the author key pair before I start putting any sensitive info on the laptop.
- Load the .iso on to a flash drive using [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/en_US/)
    - Thanks for the suggestion [@tallguyjenks](https://github.com/tallguyjenks)!
- Done with prep, off to the install!!!

---

## Installation

---

Some general specs (need to know what I'm working with):

- Laptop: ASUS F75VD-NS51
    - First available: 2013-04-10
    - Processor: Intel Core i5 - 3230 @ 2.6 GHz
    - RAM: 6 GB DDR 3
    - HDD: 750 GB
    - Chipset: Intel HM76
    - Video Card: Discrete - NVIDIA GeForce 610M, 1 GB Video Memory

Laptop is a little on the older side (8 years old) and pretty heavy when compared to today's standards (2021). Can't really use it for anything else, so it's a good sandbox to play in!

Having some issues trying to boot it from USB. BIOS is **super** old, may need to update it before trying to boot from USB. More research needed...false start for today.

---

## Side Notes

---

For the age of this computer, it really has a great screen.