# 2021-07-07

Day 2: Installing Arch on a laptop?

## Recap & Plan

Not much luck yesterday, couldn't get the laptop to boot from a USB. Going to try the following:

1. Change boot order in BIOS
2. Reboot in Safe Mode and force the comp to accept the USB
3. Mess around with as many settings as I can in the BIOS
4. Start the installation process from within Windows?
4. Possibly brick the computer by messing with the BIOS

## Prep

No prep today, it's really just forcing the comp to accept the USB as a boot device

## Installation

Well, figured out how to update the BIOS. For this BIOS version, I'll have to:

- Load the updated BIOS on a flash drive
- Restart the computer
- Enter the BIOS (hold F2 at startup)
- Under the `Advanced` menu select `Start Easy Flash`
- Select the flash drive that contains the BIOS
- Approve, wait, reboot

Didn't update the BIOS (yet). Strange, yesterday I had the USB plugged in and the BIOS didn't recognize it. Today, the BIOS sees it as a valid boot device - maybe I didn't have it plugged in all the way? Changed the boot order in BIOS; time to cross my fingers and see if things work!

Nope, booted in Windows again... Going digging around in the BIOS and time to update the BIOS (booted into Windows anyway, might as well grab some files while I'm here).

[Some steps](https://www.asus.com/support/FAQ/1013017) that I'll need to do that **should** help based on info I found by searching around the internet:

1. Set boot order (already done)
2. Disable `Fast Boot`
3. Disable `Secure Boot`
4. Save and exit

Love the attempt at keeping their customers safe, but it's a pain when it takes 10 minutes to restart the computer if my attempt to boot via USB didn't work...

Doing something I shouldn't be doing - multiple things at once. I **should** just be changing BIOS settings and then attempting to boot, instead I'm changing BIOS settings AND updating the BIOS.

Tried to update the BIOS, already up to the latest version...yay?

Alright, that's option 1...

GOT IT! In the BIOS, there's a `Boot Override` option, selected the USB and Arch is up and running! Woot!

### Command Prompt

Met with `root@archiso ~ #`

Time to check [installation guides](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Installation_guide)

**Super** intimidating, but this is what I wanted. Just running through the commands on the installation guide:

- Set keyboard layout: ls /usr/share/kbd/keymaps/**/*.map.gz
    - Change the layout by using the `loadkeys` command (no need for me to change the layout - skip)
- Console fonts: ls /usr/share/kbd/consolefonts/
    - Change the font by using the `setfont` command (not going to play with this right now - skip)
- Verify the boot mode: /ls /sys/firmware/efi/efivars
    - Got a response, this means that the system booted in UEFI mode

### Connecting to the Internet

- Make sure network interface is listed and enabled
    - `ip link`
    - Looks like everything is fine, time to run [`iwctl`](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Iwd#iwctl)
- Update the system clock - Done
- Partition the disks - Done
    - Had some trouble here, laptops come with multiple partitions that are "hidden" and contain backups for Windows installations if something goes wrong. I'm not deleting those partitions yet, so I'm messing around with the storage partitions that Windows was using for the OS and for file storage.
    - It's difficult not being familiar with the commands in Linux enough to know what to type next. Gotta say the Arch group that put together the wiki are lifesavers here.
    - Created a swap and a root partition (starting simple with the thought that I'll be doing this multiple times)
- Formatted the partitions - Done
- Mount the file systems - Done
    - Had some trouble here with the root partition; going back to not really understanding the commands and just following along the instructions.
- Install essential packages - Done
    - Was very nice to see the software get downloaded and installed, ah, the simple things.
    - Just realized now that I totally skipped a piece, installing other packages that are necessary for "a fully functioning base system"
        - Because of the misstep above, I got stuck. Will pick up tomorrow. SO far out of my depth right now - fun times!


## Side Notes

I noticed that GitHub automatically renders lines after headers, so I'll stop adding the `---` in my journals after headers.

Man, this computer **really** needs a slimmer OS on it. The boot time and response times for opening anything on the comp are abysmal. Could be a number of things (OS, bloatware, old comp, etc.) but it used to run Photoshop and Lightroom w/o a problem 